Start of Admin Docs (#705)
featurehub-io/featurehub: docs/admin-development-kit.adoc

= The Admin SDK (ADK)          
:favicon: favicon.ico
ifdef::env-github,env-browser[:outfilesuffix: .adoc]
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
:toc-title: Contents

++++
<!-- google -->
<script>
(function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
        (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
    m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
})(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');
ga('create', 'UA-173153929-1', 'auto');
ga('send', 'pageview');
</script>
++++

link:index{outfilesuffix}[Back to index]

== Overview

> The Admin SDK is designed to provide you easy access to the Management Repository API. It is an OpenAPI driven API, there is no functionality in the API that is not documented in our published OpenAPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Admin SDK is designed to provide access to the Management Repository API. It is an OpenAPI driven API, there is no functionality in the API that is not documented in our published OpenAPI.
```

== The API

The API is broken up into a number of services representing different facets of the Management Repository, e.g.
Portfolios, Applications, Environments, Features, Service Accounts, Authentication and so forth.

=== Installing the ADK in your project

> We currently have only Java 8 and Java 11 released. Typescript and DotNet will follow soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We currently have Java 8 and Java 11 ADKs released. Typescript and DotNet ADKs will follow soon.
```

====
.Maven - Java 8
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.featurehub.mr.sdk</groupId>
  <artifactId>java8-admin-client</artifactId>
  <version>[1.1, 2)</version>
</dependency>
----

.Maven - Java 11
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.featurehub.mr.sdk</groupId>
  <artifactId>java11-admin-client</artifactId>
  <version>[1.1, 2)</version>
</dependency>
----

.Gradle - Java 8
[source,groovy]
----
implementation 'io.featurehub.mr.sdk:java8-admin-client:[1.1,2)'
----
.Gradle - Java 11
[source,groovy]
----
implementation 'io.featurehub.mr.sdk:java11-admin-client:[1.1,2)'
----
====

> NOTE: dotnet to come

Reviewer: remove this?

> NOTE: dotnet to come

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

=== Using the ADK

As we release new Admin tool kits, we will add code examples in different languages. 

NOTE: for Java, because it doesn't have optional parameters, all parameters must be specified, even if null.

> NOTE: when in doubt, the OpenAPI document is the source of truth and this document can become out of date.

Reviewer: could you please insert the link to the OPenAPI doc

==== Creating the API Client to enable you to talk to the server

In all ADKs, there is an API client that you need to specify where the server is located. Once you have logged in,
its on this API client that you also set your *Bearer Token*.

> NOTE: FeatureHub as yet does not support Personal Access Tokens. Once those arrive, you can use those to provide 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: FeatureHub as yet does not support Personal Access Tokens. Once those arrive, you can use those to provide 
```
```suggestion
NOTE: FeatureHub as yet does not support Personal Access Tokens. 
```

> access to the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

====
.Java 8
[source,java]
----
import io.featurehub.admin.ApiClient;
import io.featurehub.admin.Configuration;

ApiClient api = new ApiClient();
// wherever your host is located
api.setBasePath("http://localhost:8085");

// if you are running a single authenticated client, you can now do this:
Configuration.setDefaultApiClient(api);
// and you won't have to pass the api around
----

.Java 11
[source,java]
----
import io.featurehub.admin.ApiClient;

ApiClient api = new ApiClient();
// wherever your host is located
api.setHost("localhost").setPort(8085)
// if you are running a single authenticated client, you can now do this:
Configuration.setDefaultApiClient(api);
// and you won't have to pass the api around
----
====

> NOTE: If you do not set the global default API client, then you will keep to keep track of the client and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If you do not set the global default API client, then you will have to keep track of the client and
```

==== Logging in

> Once you have created you Api client, you can then pass it to the Authentication system and log in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Api client is created, you can then pass it to the Authentication system and log in. Make sure authenticated user has been created in the FeatureHub Admin app prior to that and has enough access rights to perform ADK operations that you are planning to do. 
```

Once you have created you Api client, you can then pass it to the Authentication system and log in.

====
.Java
[source,java]
----
// create the Auth Service
AuthServiceApi authApi = new AuthServiceApi();

// get back the token
TokenizedPerson tp = authApi.login(new UserCredentials().email("test@mailinator.com").password("password123"))
----
====

The differences between 8 and 11 are in how to specify the token to the APIClient.

====
.Java 8
[source,java]
----
api.setBearerToken(tp.accessToken)
----

.Java 11
[source,java]
----
// tell the API that it should add the bearer token onto the outgoing requests
api.setRequestInterceptor(builder -> {
builder.header("Authorization", "Bearer " + tp.accessToken)
} );
----
====

> One you are authenticated, you can now use the SDK and there are no differences between Java 8 and 11.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once authenticated, you can now use the SDK and there are no differences between Java 8 and 11.
```

== Core Apis

=== Managing Portfolios

> The API lets you, presuming you have permission, manage Portfolios. The core functionality is in `PortfolioServiceApi`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API lets you, presuming authenticated user has permission, manage Portfolios. The core functionality is in `PortfolioServiceApi`.
```

Always examine the generated code for details on what error codes and status codes can be returned.

> A portfolio consists of Applications and Groups. Once you have a portfolio, you can perform operations on those two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A portfolio consists of Applications and Groups entities. Once you have a portfolio, you can perform operations on those entities.
```

> things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

====
.Java 
[source,java]
----
PortfolioServiceApi portfolioService = new PortfolioServiceApi();
----
====

==== Create Portfolio

> This creates a portfolio, and indicates whether you want to return any created groups and applications inside the portfolio. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API creates a portfolio, and indicates whether you want to return any created groups and applications inside the portfolio. 
```

Currently the API does not allow you to create groups and applications when creating portfolios.

====
.Java Definition
[source,java]
----
Portfolio createPortfolio(Portfolio portfolio, Boolean includeGroups, Boolean includeApplications)
----
.Java use
[source,java]
----
Portfolio portfolio = portfolioService.createPortfolio(new Portfolio().name("name").description("description"), null, null)
----
====

==== Delete Portfolio

> This will delete the portfolio and everything inside it. This is a final operation so be careful with it. It returns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API will delete the portfolio and everything inside it. This is a final operation so be careful with it. It returns
```

true if successful, false if not.

====
.Java Definition
[source,java]
----
Boolean deletePortfolio(UUID id, Boolean includeGroups, Boolean includeApplications, Boolean includeEnvironments)
----

.Java use
[source,java]
----
Portfolio portfolio = portfolioService.createPortfolio(id, null, null, null)
----
====

==== Searching for Portfolios

> This allows you to search through your portfolios by name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation allows to search through portfolios by name
```

====
.Java Definition
[source,java]
----
List<Portfolio> findPortfolios(Boolean includeGroups, Boolean includeApplications, SortOrder order, String filter, String parentPortfolioId)
----
.Java use
[source,java]
----
List<Portfolio> portfolios = portfolioService.findPortfolios(true, true, SortOrder.ASC, null, null)
----
====

- `includeGroups`: if true, will fill in the groups available to each portfolio
- `includeApplications`: if true, will fill in the applications available to each portfolio
- `order`: if null, then whatever order they are in the database, otherwise specify ascending or descending
- `filter`: a partial string to search for - it operates like a database `like`. All comparisons are case insignificant.
- `parentPortfolioId`: _obsolete_

This will return all portfolios in ascending order.

==== Get A Portfolio

> This allows you to get the details of a portfolio if you have its ID. If you need to refresh the portfolio details for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation allows to get the details of a portfolio by ID. 
```

> example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

====
.Java Definition
[source,java]
----
Portfolio getPortfolio(UUID id, Boolean includeGroups, Boolean includeApplications, Boolean includeEnvironments)
----

.Java use
[source,java]
----
Portfolio portfolio = portfolioService.getPortfolio(id, true, true, true)
----
====

- `id`: the portfolio's id
- `includeGroups`: if true, will fill in the groups available to each portfolio
- `includeApplications`: if true, will fill in the applications available to each portfolio
- `includeEnvironments`: if true, all applications will have their environments listed

This would get the portfolio and all of its groups, applications and within those applications, their environments.

==== Update a Portfolio

> This allows you to update a portfolio's name and description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation allows to update a portfolio's name and description.
```

- `includeGroups`: if true, will fill in the groups available to each portfolio
- `includeApplications`: if true, will fill in the applications available to each portfolio
- `includeEnvironments`: if true, all applications will have their environments listed

=== Managing Applications

=== Managing Groups

=== Managing Environments

=== Managing Features

This series of APIs allows you to create features. Features exist at the application level, so once they have been created, they will exist in all environments.

Features once deleted don't actually go away, they are archived and their key is changed so you can recreate a new feature with the same key, but you won't lose their audit history.

====
.Java use
[source,java]
----
FeatureServiceApi featureService = new FeatureServiceApi();
----
====

==== Creating a new feature

====
.Java Definition
[source,java]
----
List<Feature> createFeaturesForApplication(UUID id, Feature feature)
----

.Java use
[source,java]
----
List<Feature> allFeatures = featureService.createFeaturesForApplication(appId, 
   new Feature().name("Feature's Name").key("FEATURE_KEY").valueType(FeatureValueType.BOOLEAN))
----
====

> It takes a Feature, where the three fields you must specify are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Required fields are:
```

- `name` - the name given to the feature as it will appear in the admin console
- `key` - the key, unique among the applications
- `valueType` - the type of the feature: boolean (flag), number, string or json

=== Managing Feature Values

> Feature Values exist on a specific feature in a specific environment. Flag features must have a value (true or false), whereas all other feature values can be null. All feature values must also be locked or unlocked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feature Values exist on a specific feature in a specific environment. Flag features must have a value (true or false), whereas all other feature types (String, Number, Json) can have feature value set as null. All feature values must also have "locked" property set to true or false.
```

====
.Java use
[source,java]
----
EnvironmentFeatureServiceApi featureValueService = new EnvironmentFeatureServiceApi();
----
====

== Using the OpenAPI Files directly

If you use a language we don't provide an artifact for or use an OpenAPI generator that is different from the one we

> are using, the information on the API is always located at http://api.dev.featurehub.io/mrapi/releases.json.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are using, the information on the latest API is located at 
https://github.com/featurehub-io/featurehub/tree/main/infra/api-bucket/files/mrapi  

Or can be served from:
http://api.dev.featurehub.io/mrapi/1.1.5.yaml

```

> It will typically look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
